Mercury is named after the Roman god of merchants and travellers.
Mercury does not have any moons or rings.
Your weight on Mercury would be 38% of your weight on Earth.
A day on the surface of Mercury lasts 176 Earth days.
A year on Mercury takes 88 Earth days.
Mercury has a diameter of 4,879 km, making it the smallest planet.
It’s not known who discovered Mercury.
Mercury is only the second hottest planet.
Venus is named after the Roman god of love.
Venus is nearly as big as the Earth with a diameter of 12,104 km.
Venus is thought to be made up of a central iron core, rocky mantle and silicate crust.
A day on the surface of Venus (solar day) would appear to take 117 Earth days.
A year on Venus takes 225 Earth days.
The surface temperature on Venus can reach 471 °C.
Venus rotates in the opposite direction to most other planets.
Venus is the second brightest object in the night sky.
Mars is named after the Roman god of war.
Mars has two moons, Phobos and Deimos
Mars and Earth have approximately the same landmass.
Mars is home to, Olympus Mons, the tallest mountain in the solar system.
Out of 40, only 18 missions to Mars have been successful.
Often lasting months and covering the entire planet, Mars has the largest dust storms in the solar system.
On Mars the Sun appears about half the size as it does on Earth.
Pieces of Mars have fallen to Earth which has allowed scientist to study the planet before launching space missions.
There are signs of liquid water on Mars.
Jupiter is named after the Roman god of light, or the king of all gods.
Jupiter has 79 known moons, the largest of which, Ganymede, is the largest moon in the solar system.
Jupiter’s moons are named are the Roman gods wives and lovers.
Jupiter is the fourth brightest object in the solar system.
Jupiter has the shortest day of all the planets with a day lasting only 9 hours and 55 minutes.
Jupiter orbits the Sun once every 11.8 Earth years.
Jupiter has unique clouds, made mostly out of ammonia crystals and sulphur.
Jupiter’s’ Great Red Spot is a huge storm that has raged for at least 350 years. It’s so large that 3 Earths could fit inside it.
Jupiter has a thin ring system composed mainly of dust particles ejected from some of Jupiter’s smaller worlds during impacts from incoming comets and asteroids.
Eight spacecraft have visited Jupiter.
Saturn is named after the Roman god of agriculture.
Saturn has 150 moons and smaller moonlets, but only 13 of which have diameters larger than 50km. The largest moons are Titan and Rhea. Enceladus appears to have an ocean below its frozen surface.
Saturn can be seen with the naked eye.
Saturn is the flattest planet.
Saturn orbits the Sun once every 29.4 Earth years.
Saturn has oval-shaped storms similar to Jupiter’s.
Saturn is made mostly of hydrogen.
Saturn has the most extensive rings in the solar system made mostly of chunks of ice and small amounts of carbonaceous dust. The rings stretch out more than 120,700 km from the planet.
Four spacecraft have visited Saturn.
Uranus is named after the Roman god of the sky.
Uranus has 27 moons all of which are named after characters from the works of William Shakespeare and
Alexander Pope.
A day on Uranus lasts 17 hours and 14 minutes.
Uranus makes one trip around the Sun every 84 Earth years.
Uranus is often referred to as an “ice giant” planet.
Uranus hits the coldest temperatures of any planet with minimum recorded atmospheric temperatures dropping to -224 degrees Celsius.
Uranus has two sets of very thin dark coloured rings.
Only one spacecraft, the Voyager 2, has ever flown by Uranus. That was in 1986.
Neptune is named after the Roman god of the sea.
Neptune has 14 moons all of which are named after minor water gods from Greek mythology. Triton is by far the largest.
Neptune spins on its axis very rapidly. Its equatorial clouds take 18 hours to make one rotation.
Neptune is the smallest of the ice giants.
Neptune’s’ atmosphere is mainly made of hydrogen and helium, with some methane.
Neptune has a very active climate with high-speed winds whipping around the planet at up 600 meters per second.
Neptune has a very thin collection of rings which are likely made up of ice and dust particles.
Only one spacecraft, the Voyager 2, has ever flown by Uranus. That was in 1989.
Pluto is named after the Roman god of the underworld.
Pluto was reclassified from a planet to a dwarf planet in 2006.
Pluto has five known moons, Charon, Styx, Nix, Kerberos, and Hydra.
Pluto is one third water
Pluto is smaller than Earth’s moon.
Pluto has an elliptical orbit and is at times closer to the sun than Neptune.
Pluto sometimes has an atmosphere. When it orbits closer to the sun ice melts creating a thin atmosphere.
Only one spacecraft, the New Horizons, has ever flown by Uranus. That was on the 14th of July 2015.
The Sun accounts for 99.86% of the mass in the solar system.
The Sun is still growing.
The Sun will eventually be about the size of Earth.
It takes eight minutes for light reach Earth from the Sun.
The Moon gravitates around its own axis.
Approximately 49 moons could fit into Earth.
The Earth is 81 times heavier than the moon.
From Earth, only 59% of the moon is visible.
Moon dust is said to smell like spent gunpowder.
The Moon is one quarter the diameter of the Earth.
People on Earth always see the same side of the Moon.
A full moon is about five times brighter than a half-moon.
The Moon's surface gravity is roughly one-sixth of Earth's.
The Moon is surrounded by a permanent asymmetric dust cloud.
The Moon orbits Earth at an average speed of 1.28 light-seconds.
The Moon is moving approximately 3.8 cm away from our planet every year.
The crust of the Moon is on average about 31 miles (50 kilometers) thick.
The volume of Earth’s moon is the same as the volume of the Pacific Ocean.
A compass would not work on the moon because it has no global magnetic field.
Mercury and Venus are the only planets in our solar system that have no moon.
"Moonglade" is the bright reflection of the moon's light on an expanse of water.
Because there is no atmosphere on the moon, there is no twilight before nightfall.
The moon’s core is 2-4% of its mass, whereas Earth’s core is about 30% of its mass.
59% of the surface of the Moon is visible from Earth through changes in perspective.
Earth rotates 1000 miles per hour. The moon rotates much slower at 10 miles per hour.
The moon has Wi-Fi. It comes all the way from Earth, beamed by 4 infrared telescopes.
Looking down from its north pole, the moon orbits counterclockwise, from west to east.

